ABOUT US:
Rapid Response is a registered non-profit organisation committed to provide disaster response and preparedness services to the vulnerable communities in both crisis and non crisis situations.

MISSION:
To provide immediate, effective and sustainable support for the victims of natural disasters.

VISION:
We envision a safer and disaster resilient India.

CORE VALUES:
All members of our organisation are driven by their passion for disaster management.

We are committed to be open and transparent about what we do and how we do it.

We value honesty, mutual respect and professionalism in all aspects of relationships within us and between our organization and our partners.

WHAT WE DO:

DISASTER RESPONSE:
Rapid Response, respond immediately to families affected by natural disasters with food, water and essential items and also work towards rehabilitation of the affected families. Our emergency responses are timely at appropriate scale and scope, providing high quality programs effectively for the most vulnerable survivors and their families.

Rescue & Medical Assistance,

Relief - Distribution of Food, Relief Kit, Bed Kit, Hygiene Kit and Educational Kits,

Rehabilitation - Focusing on WASH & LIVELIHOODS.


DISASTER PREPAREDNESS:
In non-crisis situation, we actively engage with vulnerable communities and train them to cope with emergencies. With our following programs, we are preparing the vulnerable communities to manage disasters better and minimise the impact of natural disasters.

Community Managed Disaster Risk Reduction Program,

Comprehensive School Safety Program for Children,

SMS based Disaster Preparedness and Early Warning System,

Promoting Mangroves for Coastal Defence,

Formation of Disaster Resilient Villages.


WHY DISASTER MANAGEMENT?
India is one of the most disaster prone countries in the world, 23 out of 29 states are multi-disaster prone regions. Over 40 million hectare of land has been identified as flood prone. About 57% of the total area is vulnerable to earthquake of varying intensities. The Indian Ocean is one among the six key cyclone-prone regions of the world. The coromandel coastal line is more prone, about 80% of the total cyclones generated in the region hit here.

Every year millions of Indians were affected by natural disasters. These disasters leave people traumatised by the death of family, friends and their lives devastated by their loss of livelihood. The impact is high and it has been increasing dramatically in the last few decades in terms of number of people affected and the length of time they are affected for. This trend is expected to keep rising in coming years.

To deal with disasters, there is an urgent need of local institution, which can play a pro-active role in disaster management. This resulted in the establishment of Rapid Response, a registered Indian charity dedicated to provide disaster response and preparedness activities across India.

